.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH CATZ 1 "July 2002" "CB Utils"

.SH NAME

catz \- ``cat'' for compressed files

.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
.B catz \fI[ -d ] [ -v STDIN_NAME_VAR ] [ FILES [ "-" ] [ < FILE ] ]\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B catz
is a replacement for \fBcat\fR(1), but \fIcatz\fR decodes encoded files,
avoiding temporary storage like \fBzcat\fR(1) but for many possible formats.

.SH USAGE

This program is careful to go by magic numbers in headers of compressed or
otherwise encoded files when no pathname extension matches.  NOTE: in a shell
context, it is easy to say "\fIcatz\fR < input.xz" to force ignoring extensions.

The flag "-v" indicates \fISTDIN_NAME_VAR \fR, an environment variable that
the invoker sets to the pathname for stdin.  Other pathnames are available
from the \fBcatz\fR argument list.  Pathnames are only really needed if magic
number recognition would fail or if selected decoder programs need a pathname.

Just as with \fBcat\fR(1), a lone minus sign ("-") filename indicates
how the standard input stream should be ordered within the catenation.

Currently, \fBcatz\fR has decoders for
\fBzip\fR,
\fBgzip\fR,
\fBcompress\fR,
\fBbzip\fR,
\fBbzip2\fR,
\fBlzop\fR,
\fBlzma\fR (lzma-utils version),
\fBxz\fR or \fBpixz\fR,
\fBplzip\fR,
\fBlz4\fR, and
\fBzstd\fR and the document formats
\fB.pdf\fR,
\fB.ps*\fR, and
\fB.htm*\fR

NOTE: Due to limitations in utilities for the format, zip files given as
paths will have \fBall\fR members catenated, while only the \fBfirst\fR
member is extracted from unseekable zip inputs.

A leading "-d" option is ignored for compatibility with GNU tar -I.

.SH IMPL NOTES

The one-file, seekable-input case allows simple replacement of the
\fBcatz\fR process with a decoder process.  The \fBexec\fR(2) inherits
the needed file descriptors.  This avoids any unnecessary context
switching or copying.

The N-file, named-argument case requires a two-process at a time system
in order to generate an ordered, integrated output stream.  \fBcatz\fR
uses a forked version of itself to read output from the read side of a
pipe, copying it to the original stdout.  All decoder programs send
their output to the write-side.

If no path name is available (e.g., stdin) or if the pathname does not
have a standard filename extension for compressed files, then a magic
number \fImust\fR be read to identify the decoder to be used.  A decoder
itself will (typically) \fIalso\fR insist on this magic number being
present.  For seekable input streams, \fBlseek\fR(2) can restore the
file pointer and the decoder process will be happy.  For unseekable
input streams, we must fork and exec a new process to put the header
back into place for a translator.  In short, \fBcat foo|catz\fR should
work fine.  This is unlikely true of any/many other auto-decoder.

.SH AUTHOR

C.Blake <charlechaud@gmail.com> conceived & wrote \fBcatz\fR.

.SH BUGS

Please report them!

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR cat (1) ", zcat" (1) ", bzip" (1) ", bzip2" (1) ", zip" (1) ", compress" (1) ", grep"(1)
